README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/workflows/Make%20a%20release/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/actions)

# `TinyTiny RSS as a systemd portable service`

Build an immutable [Tiny Tiny RSS](https://tt-rss.org/) image for a systemd [portable service](https://systemd.io/PORTABLE_SERVICES/).
Made with uwsgi and nixos.

## Quick Start

Get the latest image from [Github releases](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/releases/), into
`/var/lib/portables` and then run:

```sh
portablectl attach --enable --now tt-rss
```

The service **has** to be configured in the `/etc/tt-rss/config.php` file before it's started (see bellow).
All state will be kept in `/var/lib/private/tt-rss`.

## Application configuration

The service is configured by the `/etc/tt-rss/config.php` file (make sure it's mode 644, ie. readable by the service),
copy/paste the following snippet, and edit to your liking:

Example:
```
<?php
    define('DB_TYPE', 'mysql'); // pgsql or mysql
    define('DB_HOST', 'localhost');
    define('DB_NAME', 'ttrss');
    define('DB_USER', 'tt-rss');
    define('DB_PASS', 'tt-rss');
    define('DB_PORT', '3306');
    define('SELF_URL_PATH', 'http://localhost:8080/');
```

## External dependencies

The running service doesn't have an http server, database nor certificates. It only exposes
the `/run/tt-rss.sock` uwsgi protocol socket, which can be used with nginx. This means that you have
to have nginx running on the "host", and a database running either on the same host or on a remote server.

I choose to use nginx on the "host" so that it can be shared with other services, and it makes
integration with LetsEncrypt/certbot easier. I personally also use a remote database server.

The portable service will mount `/etc/ssl/` from the "host" in the service, so that trusted ca certificates
are not hard-coded in the image, and can be updated as part of the "host" OS life-cycle.

## Nginx configuration

The portable service will operate on the `/run/tt-rss.sock` uwsgi socket. We gonna let the host nginx handle
all the http, https and letsencrypt work. The config is simple, just proxy everything back to the uwsgi socket:
```
server {
    …
    location / {
        include uwsgi_params;
        uwsgi_pass unix:/run/tt-rss.sock;
    }
    …
}
```
> Note: even static files are served by the uwsgi server, but uwsgi has a good enough static files server, which doesn't
> block the application workers

## More info

See the [wiki](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/wiki/) for more info.

Commit message:

bump tt-rss to 2021-02-28 b05d4e3d9
this release changed the configuration system to environment variables
https://git.tt-rss.org/fox/tt-rss/wiki/GlobalConfig

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/workflows/Make%20a%20release/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/actions)

# `TinyTiny RSS as a systemd portable service`

Build an immutable [Tiny Tiny RSS](https://tt-rss.org/) image for a systemd [portable service](https://systemd.io/PORTABLE_SERVICES/).
Made with uwsgi and nixos.

## Quick Start

Get the latest image from [Github releases](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/releases/), into
`/var/lib/portables` and then run:

```sh
portablectl attach --enable --now tt-rss
```

The service is configured in the `/etc/tt-rss/config.env` file.
All state will be kept in `/var/lib/private/tt-rss`.

## Service configuration

The service is configured by the `/etc/tt-rss/config.env` file. It's a simple [KEY=VALUE
file](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.exec.html#EnvironmentFile=).

Example:
```
TTRSS_SELF_URL_PATH=https://rss.example.com/
TTRSS_SESSION_COOKIE_LIFETIME=2592000
TTRSS_DB_TYPE=mysql
TTRSS_DB_HOST=db.example.com
TTRSS_DB_PORT=3306
TTRSS_DB_NAME=ttrss
TTRSS_DB_USER=ttrss
TTRSS_DB_PASS=example password
```

See https://git.tt-rss.org/fox/tt-rss/wiki/GlobalConfig for an explanation of the tt-rss configration system.

## External dependencies

The running service doesn't have an http server, database nor certificates. It only includes the tt-rss application
code, uwsgi with the php plugin, and the required php extensions. It exposes the `/run/tt-rss.sock` uwsgi
protocol socket, which can be used with nginx. This means that you have
to provide an nginx running on the "host", and a database running either on the same host or on a remote server.

I choose to use nginx on the "host" so that it can be shared with other services, and it makes
integration with LetsEncrypt/certbot easier. I personally also use a remote database server.

The portable service will mount `/etc/ssl/` from the "host" in the service, so that trusted ca certificates
are not hard-coded in the image, and can be updated as part of the "host" OS life-cycle.

## Nginx configuration

The portable service will operate on the `/run/tt-rss.sock` uwsgi socket. We gonna let the host nginx handle
all the http, https and letsencrypt work. The config is simple, just proxy everything back to the uwsgi socket:
```
server {
    …
    location / {
        include uwsgi_params;
        uwsgi_pass unix:/run/tt-rss.sock;
    }
    …
}
```
> Note: even static files are served by the uwsgi server, but uwsgi has a good enough static files server, which doesn't
> block the application workers

## More info

See the [wiki](https://github.com/gdamjan/tt-rss-service/wiki/) for more info.
